README.md, before:

# Classification_algorithm

classification_algorithm is a repository for classification of abnormal lung sounds by Sonavi Labs Inc.

# Installation

I will include all the necessary steps for installation, such as the google-cloud setup or pip libraries via requirements.txt, when necessary

# Where to find?

Data Generation

- Under scripts/dataset_generation, you will find config_run_dataset.sh, which configurates the data generation (i.e., sample rate, mel or log, augmentation) and calls generate_dataset.py with the necessary arguments
- generate_dataset.py will occasionally run tests found under scripts/dataset_generation/tests, which themselves call data objects (.pkl) under scripts/dataset_generation/tests/test_files, a folder not provided at the moment. You can avoid any issues by setting test to 0 in config_run_dataset.sh, meaning no tests will be run. 
- Paths for the data sources and destinations will need to be adjusted in config_run_dataset.sh. 

Cochlear Preprocession Script (Python)

- Under cochlear_preprocessing, you will find wav2aud2.py

Commit message:

updating wav2aud.py and adding spectrogram images and values for validation

README.md, after:

# Classification_algorithm

classification_algorithm is a repository for classification of abnormal lung sounds by Sonavi Labs Inc.

# Installation

I will include all the necessary steps for installation, such as the google-cloud setup or pip libraries via requirements.txt, when necessary

# Where to find?

Data Generation

- Under scripts/dataset_generation, you will find config_run_dataset.sh, which configurates the data generation (i.e., sample rate, mel or log, augmentation) and calls generate_dataset.py with the necessary arguments
- generate_dataset.py will occasionally run tests found under scripts/dataset_generation/tests, which themselves call data objects (.pkl) under scripts/dataset_generation/tests/test_files, a folder not provided at the moment. You can avoid any issues by setting test to 0 in config_run_dataset.sh, meaning no tests will be run. 
- Paths for the data sources and destinations will need to be adjusted in config_run_dataset.sh. 

Cochlear Preprocession Script (Python)

    # talk about writing structure

- Under cochlear_preprocessing, you will find wav2aud2.py along the filter orders and values (i.e., COCH_A, C0CH_B, p). 
- Before running any scripts, change the paths in the first lines of the main() function such that, coch_path points to a folder containing COCH_A.txt, COCH_B.txt and p.txt and file_path is the path of the wav file you want to convert to a spectrogram.
- Running the file will generate a spectrogram and open it via matplotlib. Under a validation folder (which it will create if it doesn't exist), the script will create create a folder named after the wav file. In the said directory, you will find the saved spectrogram, its numerical values in full_aud_spect.txt, and a folder for each column containing the arma filter, the half wave rectification, lateral inhibitory mask and temporal integration window values. 
- Libraries to be downloaded are included in cochlear_preprocessing/requirements.txt

Best Models

- Under trainers/main/top_performing_models, you will find files named with the format id_filenumber_type_data_accuracy.py each containing their respective models
